== README

This README would normally document whatever steps are necessary to get the
application up and running.

This project is developed from local environment (Mac OS) using PostgreSQL.  Here are the steps to set up:
1. install Postgres and start the server - make sure it is running.
	I created rails project before the db was installed properly. I manually run the scripts to create development and test db for the local dev project. Here are the list of URLs I followed:
	https://www.codefellows.org/blog/three-battle-tested-ways-to-install-postgresql

	https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-postgresql-with-your-ruby-on-rails-application-on-ubuntu-14-04

	https://www.moncefbelyamani.com/how-to-install-postgresql-on-a-mac-with-homebrew-and-lunchy/

	Commands: 
	mkdir -p ~/Library/LaunchAgents
	ln -sfv /usr/local/opt/postgresql/*.plist ~/Library/LaunchAgents
  launchctl load ~/Library/LaunchAgents/homebrew.mxcl.postgresql.plist (this starts the db server when login)

    createdb saas-project-app_development
  	createdb saas-project-app_test

  	install 
  	gem install pg

  	Some psql commands:
  	\l -> display all the dbs;
  	\c testdb -> connect to a db;

2. Ruby and Rails have been installed at the begining of the course and a sample project was created to verify the environment.


3. Add local SSH key to git account. Create new git repo and initialize the local repo to the remote.

4. Install heroku toolbelt to gain access to heroku CLI and create app:
	heroku create
	heroku login
	heroku create
	git remote -v
	heroku git:remote -a nameless-dusk-46008

5. Production deploy
	git push heroku master
	heroku run rake db:migrate

6. sublime text 3 set up - add plugins
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NrYzJz1P4fE


I also want to document other technical issues I encountered in the process:

1. when 'twitter-bootstrap-rails' -> this gem has dependency of execJS. I find only a few questions on the net so did this:
	gem install execjs

	I could also add it to the gem file?

	Get "undefined method 'devise_for'"" -> can't shut down rails server using CTRL + c, had to kill -9 PID

	Had run the wrong devise our of the order and needed to restore the last commit in git to go back to initial commit:
	git fetch origin master
	git reset --hard FETCH_HEAD
	git clean -df
		or:
		run similar commands to reverse:
			rails d controller lalala
			rails d model yadayada
			rails d scaffold hohoho

	Some useful psql for future references:



	rails generate bootstrap:install static -> this means no need to customize stylesheet using LESS so it installs CSS stylesheets only


Things you may want to cover:

* Ruby version

* System dependencies

* Configuration

* Database creation

* Database initialization

* How to run the test suite

* Services (job queues, cache servers, search engines, etc.)

* Deployment instructions

* ...


Please feel free to use a different markup language if you do not plan to run
<tt>rake doc:app</tt>.
